<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en-US"><!--This file was converted to xhtml by LibreOffice - see https://cgit.freedesktop.org/libreoffice/core/tree/filter/source/xslt for the code.--><head profile="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/"><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/><title xml:lang="en-US">- no title specified</title><meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en-US" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/><meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="http://xml.openoffice.org/odf2xhtml"/><meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="2023-12-10T14:39:29.512000000" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="2023-12-10T14:40:10.770000000" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="xsl:vendor" content="libxslt"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/><style>
    table { border-collapse:collapse; border-spacing:0; empty-cells:show }
    td, th { vertical-align:top; font-size:12pt;}
    h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 { clear:both;}
    ol, ul { margin:0; padding:0;}
    li { list-style: none; margin:0; padding:0;}
    span.footnodeNumber { padding-right:1em; }
    span.annotation_style_by_filter { font-size:95%; font-family:Arial; background-color:#fff000;  margin:0; border:0; padding:0;  }
    span.heading_numbering { margin-right: 0.8rem; }* { margin:0;}
    .P1 { font-size:12pt; font-family:'Liberation Serif'; writing-mode:horizontal-tb; direction:ltr; text-align:left ! important; }
    .P2 { font-size:12pt; font-family:'Times New Roman'; writing-mode:horizontal-tb; direction:ltr; text-align:left ! important; font-weight:normal; }
    .P3 { font-size:12pt; font-family:'Times New Roman'; writing-mode:horizontal-tb; direction:ltr; text-align:left ! important; font-weight:bold; }
    .P5 { font-size:16pt; font-weight:bold; margin-bottom:0.0835in; margin-top:0.139in; font-family:'Liberation Sans'; writing-mode:horizontal-tb; direction:ltr; text-align:left ! important; }
    .Standard { font-size:12pt; font-family:'Liberation Serif'; writing-mode:horizontal-tb; direction:ltr;}
    .T1 { font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; font-weight:normal; }
    .T2 { font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; }
    .T3 { font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; }
    .T4 { color:#000000; font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; }
    .T5 { color:#000000; font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; font-weight:normal; }
    .T6 { color:#000000; font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; font-weight:bold; }
    .T7 { color:#000000; font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; font-style:normal; font-weight:bold; }
    .T8 { color:#000000; font-family:'Times New Roman'; font-size:12pt; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; }
    /* ODF styles with no properties representable as CSS:
    .dp1  { } */
</style></head><body dir="ltr" style="max-width:8.5in;margin-top:0.7874in; margin-bottom:0.7874in; margin-left:0.7874in; margin-right:0.7874in; "><h2 class="P5"><a id="a__A_Concrete_Example_of_Networks__the_“School_Uniform_Value_Chain”"><span/></a><a href="mailto:awilliams@nobeahfoundation.org" class="Standard"><span class="T2">A Concrete Example </span><span class="T3">of Networks</span><span class="T2">: </span><span class="T5"> </span><span class="T6">the “</span><span class="T7">School Uniform Value Chain</span><span class="T6">”</span></a><span class="T2"/></h2><p class="P1"><a href="mailto:awilliams@nobeahfoundation.org" class="Standard"><span class="T1">Networks of solutions that cooperate can achieve exponentially greater outcomes than stand-alone solutions that compete on their own. Yet human decision-making processes often lack the capability to consider such solutions, as well as lacking the capacity to consider a significant number of them. As an example of these current limits to human decision-making, consider the following description of a solution that current decision-making can’t reliably select, even where it is optimal:</span></a><span class="T1"/></p><p class="P2"> </p><p class="P1"><a href="mailto:awilliams@nobeahfoundation.org" class="Standard"><span class="T1">A “collectively intelligent value chain” describes a set of existing interventions combined so as to increase their impact to the point the impact might become reliably self-sustaining. As an example, c</span><span class="T5">onsider the “</span><span class="T8">South Sudan School Uniform Value Chain</span><span class="T5">”, a fictitious project to improve livelihoods in South Sudan. Assume that NGOs are currently trying to create jobs by running tailor training programs. But unfortunately, there’s no clothing industry to hire the people they train, so this training does not reliably create jobs. Virtually all clothing is imported, and though cotton is a big crop, virtually all of it is exported. The value chain is broken, as in many cases elsewhere. But assume that with the uniforms needed for school children each year in South Sudan, there is the potential to create as many as 10,000–12,000 tailoring jobs if all the uniforms were not imported. This might be about a thousand-fold increase over the few dozen tailors that are currently trained and that for the most part do not get jobs. To fix this broken value chain, we can define a series of projects. The first project will distribute school uniforms. To guarantee demand the project might offer stores that sell school uniforms a 50% discount for the first year in return for signing up to buy those uniforms for the next 5 years. We can then define a project on the to train tailors, a project to manufacture the uniforms and hire the tailors, a project to weave the cloth from local cotton, and a project to source the cotton from local growers for the same 5-year period. Each of these businesses cooperate though agreeing to buy key products or services from another business in the value chain, in return for another business in the chain agreeing to buy from them. Each of these projects will be for-profit, and so can potentially be funded through private investment. An additional opportunity for cooperation comes in finding donors or government programs who are already committed to funding such job creation. Rather than these donors or governments having to pay 100% of the cost of funding new businesses in order to create jobs, they could be offered the opportunity to cooperate with this program by providing a much smaller amount of funding merely to incentivise private investment. Having only to incentives private investment rather than funding an entire business might allow donors or governments to fund only perhaps 20% of a program while still creating the same number of jobs, thereby multiplying job creation impact per dollar by 5 times. Furthermore, new businesses are at best only likely to succeed 10% of the time. So, funding new businesses as a way of creating jobs is only likely to be successful 10% of the time. However, using a ‘pay for success’ approach in which the donor or sponsoring government is allowed to pay that 20% through impact bonds that commit it to reimbursing each project only AFTER it creates the jobs, the probability of project success for the donor might increase from that 10% to near 100% per donor dollar. The businesses still would not be successful in creating jobs 100% of the time, but because the donor or government only pays when they are, that government will be 100% successful in its job creation per dollar spent. In going from 10% success in creating jobs to 100% success per dollar spent, the donor or government will multiply the impact of their funding by a further 10×. The total increase in impact per dollar for the donor in cooperating with this program is then up to five times multiplied by 10 times, or 50 times. Once successfully piloted, a value chain can potentially be replicated with private investment in a number of other locations. Assume that pilot was replicated in15 different places. Then in this example of deploying just a few of the many potential patterns of cooperation, the result is a total increase in impact per donor dollar of up to 5×, multiplied by 10×, multiplied by 15×, or 750×. This is an amazing multiplication of impact. And it does not require any more funding. All it requires is systematically leveraging cooperation. In addition, rather than just </span><span class="T5">allowing the donor or government to fund these impact bonds through grants of cash, the program might also enable governments to fund these impact bonds through grants of tax credits. And where the number of jobs that can be created with a given amount of cash grants is finite, the number of jobs that can be created with tax credits is as great as the capacity of the market to absorb jobs.</span></a></p><p class="P3"> </p><p class="P1"><a href="mailto:awilliams@nobeahfoundation.org" class="Standard"><span class="T5">This is a simplified example in which a number of issues have been left unaddressed, such as the single path to failure of the entire value chain. A more robust example would have M instances of each enterprise so that every supplier would have a backup. However, this simplified example suffices to show that networks of interventions can have outcomes that are vastly greater, creating the potential to increase social impact per program dollar to the point that social impact programs might reliably become sustainably self-funding. It also suffices to provide an example of the type of intervention that donors in general don’t have the capacity to reliably select. Even if such networks of interventions could exponentially increase impact on targeted goals, donors looking to achieve impact currently lack the capacity to methodically design and/or assess the impact of networks of interventions in a way that would make discovering and selecting them reliably achievable, to in turn make an exponential increase in collective outcomes per unit of resources achievable, so that a sufficient amount of collective impact to solve a targeted problem within available resources might in turn be reliably achievable as well.</span></a></p><p class="P3"> </p><p class="P1"><a href="mailto:awilliams@nobeahfoundation.org" class="Standard"><span class="T5">Just like donors currently lack the capacity to assess the fitness of networks of interventions in addressing targeted objectives, and therefore are not reliably capable of discovering networks of intervention with the potential to increase impact to this degree, perhaps even increasing impact to the point it becomes sustainably self-funding so that it can occur at whatever scale is required rather than just at the scale of funding that is available, the scientific community also lacks the capability or capacity to explore the network of every combination and permutation of every component of every theory. Instead, due to complexity and lack of time, as well as due to powerful career-killing pressures against being associated with ideas that are considered as being on the fringe, or even worse as being “pseudoscience”, the community might just ignore most theories that don’t enjoy consensus agreement.</span></a></p><p class="P2"> </p><p class="P1"><a href="mailto:awilliams@nobeahfoundation.org" class="Standard"><span class="T1">However, there is far greater power in having the luxury of potentially seeming a fool without any consequences than there is in exploring only the ideas that enjoy consensus. Consider the possibility of a tool that would allow a group to assess every permutation and combination of every theory that might be held by any individual in the group. For any given amount of data, assuming each individual has at minimum some number of ideas M, the number of reasoning processes through which that data might potentially be analyzed is of the order N!, which can rise super-exponentially with the number of participants N involved, assuming the network of individuals is able to utilize such a tool to become fully connected in the sense that every individual can interact with every other to freely explore any component of anyone else’s ideas.</span></a></p><p class="P3"> </p><p class="P1"><a href="mailto:awilliams@nobeahfoundation.org" class="Standard"><span class="T1">Calling this highly connected network a “multicellular-like” network as opposed to current networks of individuals that are effectively “swarm-like” in order to</span><span class="T4"> abstract “multi-cellularity” into a pattern of network that can potentially be applied to decision-making in human groups to exponentially increase collective outcomes, then the importance of developing a tool like a GCI that creates the opportunity to exponentially increase the impact of decision-making in this way must be contrasted against the potential impact of other decision-making systems in order to assess where future research efforts might be most profitably invested.</span></a></p></body></html>